The main goal of the \tauhadvis reconstruction employed at the ATLAS
experiment is to reconstruct \tauhadvis candidates that originate from
hadronic decays of \tauleptons (\truetauhadvis) with high
efficiency. Therefore, objects from sources other than \tauhad are
frequently reconstructed as \tauhadvis candidates
(\faketauhadvis). Tau identification aims to distinguish between
\tauhadvis candidates from \tauhad and other sources.

The primary source of \faketauhadvis are quark- or gluon-initiated
jets due to the purely hadronic and jet-like signature of \tauhadvis
at the ATLAS experiment. Electrons can be another, less abundant,
source of \faketauhadvis which have to be distinguished from
\truetauhadvis using a dedicated algorithm. In the following, the
former classification task is referred to as \tauid while the latter
is referred to as \emph{electron veto}. Consequently, this chapter is
concerned with classifying the origin of \tauhadvis candidates as
either originating from \tauhad or from quark- or gluon-initiated
jets.

A number of features can be exploited to distinguish between
\tauhadvis candidates originating from \tauhad and quark- or
gluon-initiated jets:
\begin{description}

\item[\taulepton mass] The \taulepton has a mass of
  \SI{1.777}{\GeV}~\cite{pdg2020} and is therefore sufficiently
  massive to decay hadronically while still having a small mass
  compared to the energy scales of processes studied at the ATLAS
  experiment.

  The \taulepton mass can be used directly as a feature by considering
  the invariant mass of the reconstructed secondary particles
  associated to a \tauhadvis candidate. Ignoring reconstruction
  effects, the invariant mass of the visible decay products of \tauhad
  is bounded by the \taulepton mass. This is not the case for
  \tauhadvis candidates originating from quark- or gluon-initiated
  jets which do not have a strict bound.

  The other features, described hereafter, are consequences of, or
  closely related to the mass of the \taulepton.

\item[Particle multiplicity] Hadronic decays of \tauleptons produce
  few (visible) daughter particles. Most decays produce one or three
  charged hadrons (most frequently $\pi^{\pm}$) and zero to two
  neutral pions.
  % Ellis, Stirling, Webber: 6.4 Quark and gluon jet differences
  In contrast, the average multiplicity of charged and neutral
  particles inside of jets originating from the fragmentation of
  partons produced in hard scattering interactions is large and
  increases with the momentum of the
  jet~\cite{Ellis:1996mzs,STDM-2015-12}. Therefore, requirements on
  (charged) particle multiplicties are effective at rejecting
  \tauhadvis candidates originating from quark- or gluon-initiated
  jets.\footnote{Gluon-initiated jets have, on average, a larger
    particle multiplicity and a broader angular distribution of
    particles compared to quark-initiated jets due to the larger
    effective colour charge of
    gluons~\cite{Ellis:1996mzs}. Consequently, quark-initiated jets
    are more likely to be reconstructed and mis-identified as
    \tauhadvis candidates.}

\item[Collimated daughter particles] Analyses typically consider
  \tauhadvis candidates with transverse momenta exceeding
  \SI{20}{\GeV}. At these momentum scales the decay products of
  \tauleptons are collimated due to the Lorentz boost of the lepton,
  leading to the characteristic signature of a narrow jet with few
  visible particles. Requirements on the isolation of \tauhadvis
  candidates allow to reject candidates originating from quark- or
  gluon-initiated jets which have wider angular distribution of
  hadrons.

  % Mean flight path of a p = 20 GeV tau is
  % L = beta * gamma * c * tau = p/m0 * 87mu ~ 1mm
\item[\taulepton lifetime] The \taulepton has a proper lifetime of
  \SI{2.9e-13}{\second}
  ($c \tau = \SI{87}{\micro\metre}$)~\cite{pdg2020} and can thus
  travel for a few millimetres before decaying. The macroscopic
  distance traversed by the \taulepton before decaying produces a
  decay vertex that is displaced from the primary vertex (PV) of the
  hard interaction. For \taulepton decay modes with three charged
  hadrons, this secondary vertex can be reconstructed to determine its
  displacement from the PV. The secondary vertex cannot be
  reconstructed for decay modes with only one charged hadron. However,
  the longitudinal and transverse impact parameters of the track of
  the charged hadron can be used to gauge to incompatibility of the
  track with the PV, thus being sensitive to displaced decays of
  \tauleptons.

  Features related to the lifetime of the \taulepton can be used to
  distingush them from \tauhadvis candidates from quarks- or
  gluon-initiated jets as the hadrons constituting a jet are produced
  promptly at the PV of the interaction.
\end{description}
Prior to the introduction of the method described in this chapter, the
ATLAS collaboration used BDTs as binary classifiers using high-level
discriminating variables, i.e.\ variables purposefully constructed for
the classification task, as inputs.

This chapter introduces a method of performing \tauid using neural
networks that combines the information of high-level discriminating
variables with information from reconstructed charged-particle tracks
and clusters of energy in the calorimeters associated to \tauhadvis
candidates. The number of associated tracks and clusters varies
between candidates requiring the use of neural network architectures
able to process sequences of varying length. This is achieved by
employing a recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture. The method
will be referred to as RNN \tauid hereafter.

The RNN \tauid algorithm was initially proposed in
Ref.~\cite{cdeutsch-master} motivated by a similar approach developed
for track impact parameter based
$b$-tagging~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2017-003}. The algorithm was
implemented in the reconstruction software of the ATLAS
collaboration~\cite{ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-001} and the results presented
in this chapter were partially published in
Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}. The RNN \tauid was adopted by the
ATLAS collaboration as the recommended \tauid algorithm for analyses
using the \SI{139}{\per\femto\barn} $pp$-collision dataset recorded
with the ATLAS detector during Run~2 of the LHC.

This chapter is structured as follows. First,

\Cref{sec:tauid_mc}

\Cref{sec:tauid_rnn}

\Cref{sec:tauid_perf}

\Cref{sec:tauid_conclusion}


\section{Simulated Event Samples}%
\label{sec:tauid_mc}

The tau reconstruction and identification algorithms employed at the
ATLAS experiment for Run~2 of the LHC were developed using simulated
events that provide samples of \tauhadvis candidates. For \tauid,
simulated $\gammastar \to \tautau$ and di-jet events are used to yield
samples of true- and \faketauhadvis, respectively.

% y->tautau:
% https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-physics/pmg/infrastructure/mc15joboptions/-/blob/master/share/DSID425xxx/MC15.425200.Pythia8EvtGen_A14NNPDF23LO_Gammatautau_MassWeight.py
An artificial $\gammastar \to \tautau$ event sample was generated
using \PYTHIA[8.212]~\cite{Sjostrand:2014zea} for the matrix element
calculation at leading order (LO), parton showering, hadronisation,
and \taulepton decays. The contribution of the $Z$ boson propagator to
the hard scattering process was removed to provide an unpolarised
sample of \tauleptons. In addition, the cross-section of the process
was modified at generator-level to enhance the number of events with
high invariant $\tautau$ masses to increase the number of \tauhadvis
candidates with high transverse momenta. Finally, both \tauleptons are
enforced to decay hadronically to maximise statistical precision of
the \truetauhadvis sample for \tauid developments.

% Di-jet samples: JZ1W up to JZ6W
% https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-physics/pmg/infrastructure/mc15joboptions/-/blob/master/share/DSID361xxx/MC15.361021.Pythia8EvtGen_A14NNPDF23LO_jetjet_JZ1W.py
Di-jet events are generated using
\PYTHIA[8.186]~\cite{Sjostrand:2014zea} for the matrix element
calculation at LO, parton showering, and hadronisation. The generation
is performed in slices of \pT of the leading jet (anti-\kt with
$R = 0.6$) constructed from generator-level particles. Slices with
large jet transverse momenta are oversampled to increase the number of
events with high transverse momentum jets (\faketauhadvis).

The $\gammastar \to \tautau$ and di-jet samples use the A14 set of
tuned parameters for \PYTHIA[8]~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2014-021} and the
\NNPDF[2.3lo]~\cite{Ball:2012cx} set of parton distribution functions.
Decays of hadrons containing $b$- or $c$-quarks are simulated using
\EVTGEN[v1.2.0]~\cite{Lange:2001uf}. The contamination of the hard
scattering interaction with soft, inelastic proton--proton collision
events (pile-up) is accounted for by overlaying the event with
additional minimum-bias events. The response of the ATLAS detector is
simulated for all events~\cite{SOFT-2010-01} which are then
reconstructed using the \textsc{Athena} software
suite~\cite{ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-001}.


\subsection{\tauhadvis Candidate Selection}
\label{sec:tauid_candidate_selection}

The simulated events are used to construct large samples of \tauhadvis
candidates for the development \tauid algorithms and performance
evaluation. Only \tauhadvis candidates passing the reconstruction are
considered and the following selections are applied:
\begin{itemize}

\item The number of charged particle tracks associated to the
  \tauhadvis candidate, \Ntracks, is either 1 or 3. Candidates with
  one or three associated tracks are referred to as 1- and 3-prong
  \tauhadvis candidates, respectively.

\item The (visible) transverse momentum of the candidate needs to
  fulfil $\pT > \SI{20}{\GeV}$.

\item The \tauhadvis candidate needs to be within $|\eta| < 2.5$ but
  outside of $1.37 < |\eta| < 1.52$, which is the transition region
  between between the barrel and endcap electromagnetic calorimeters.

\end{itemize}
In addition, reconstructed \tauhadvis candidates from
$\gammastar \to \tautau$ events are required to be geometrically
matched to a \tauhad at generator-level within a cone of
$\Delta R < 0.2$.
% And the reco cuts are required to be fulfilled at truth-level.
All efficiencies and rejection rates given in the remainder of this
chapter do not include the effect of these selections.

The $\gammastar \to \tautau$ and di-jet events provide samples of
true- and \faketauhadvis with a size of 20 million and 46 million
candidates, respectively. The distributions of \tauhadvis candidate
\pT is shown for both samples and separately for 1- and 3-prong
candidates in~\Cref{fig:tauid_candidate_pt}. The difference in \pT
spectra between 1- and 3-prong \truetauhadvis in
\Cref{fig:tauid_candidate_pt_gammastar} result from a reduction in
track association efficiency for 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates with
increasing candidate \pT due to the decrease in angular separation of
charged hadrons from the \taulepton decay. In contrast, the \pT
spectrum of 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates from di-jet events, depicted
in \Cref{fig:tauid_candidate_pt_dijet}, shows a comparatively heavier
tail towards large \pT due to the increase in the average charged
particle multiplicity in jets with increasing jet \pT. For the
development and performance evaluation of \tauid algorithms, the
sample of \faketauhadvis candidates is re-weighted, separately for 1-
and 3-prong candidates, to match the \pT spectrum of \truetauhadvis
from $\gammastar \to \tautau$.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/taupt_gammastar}
    \subcaption{True-\tauhadvis from $\gammastar \to \tautau$ events}%
    \label{fig:tauid_candidate_pt_gammastar}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/taupt_dijet}
    \subcaption{Fake-\tauhadvis from di-jet events}%
    \label{fig:tauid_candidate_pt_dijet}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{Transverse momentum of 1- and 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates
    in $\gammastar \to \tautau$ (a) and di-jet events (b). Statistical
    uncertainties are shown as coloured bands surrounding the central
    value. Figures taken from Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_candidate_pt}
\end{figure}


\section{Tau Identification with Recurrent Neural Networks}%
\label{sec:tauid_rnn}

The RNN \tauid exploits the discrimination power of both high- and
low-level inputs to distinguish \tauhad from quark- or gluon-initiated
jets. This approach avoids a possible loss of information relevant to
\tauid when manually constructing high-level variables from low-level
inputs. Specifically, charged-particle tracks and clusters of energy
in the calorimeters, hereafter abbreviated as tracks and clusters, are
included as low-level inputs to the algorithm. The inclusion of tracks
and clusters targets the differences in charged and neutral hadron
multiplicities and track- and calorimeter-based isolation between
true- and \faketauhadvis. Tau identification is performed separately
for 1- and 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates due to their distinct
signatures.


\subsection{Input Variables}

The input variables included in the RNN \tauid algorithm are
summarised in~\Cref{tab:tauid_input_variables}. Three distinct
categories of inputs are considered. High-level inputs correspond to
observables directly associated to \tauhadvis candidates. Track and
cluster inputs refer to observables of tracks and clusters that are
associated to a \tauhadvis candidate. In the following, a description
of the input variable selection and track/cluster association is
given.

\begin{table}[htbp]
  \centering

  \caption{Summary of input variables used for 1- and 3-prong RNN
    \tauid. The table is adapted from
    Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}. Definitions of geometrical
    TopoCluster moments ($\lambda$, $\langle \lambda^2 \rangle$,
    $\langle r^2 \rangle$) are given in Ref.~\cite{PERF-2014-07}. The
    local hadronic calibration~\cite{PERF-2014-07} is used to
    calibrate jets, clusters, and \tauhadvis candidates unless
    otherwise noted. Variables using cell-level calorimeter
    information only consider cells that are part of TopoClusters for
    noise suppression. $\dagger$:~Energy depositions in the
    pre-sampler and first two layers of the electromagnetic
    calorimeters that are part of TopoClusters are abbreviated as ``EM
    clusters''.}%
  \label{tab:tauid_input_variables}

  \resizebox{0.99\textwidth}{!}{
    \input{tables/tauid_inputs}
  }
\end{table}

\subsubsection{High-Level Input Variables}

The selection of high-level input variables is based on a BDT-based
\tauid algorithm developed by the ATLAS
collaboration~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-045} and updated in
Ref.~\cite{cdeutsch-master} for new \tauhadvis reconstruction methods
deployed during Run~2 of the LHC. The BDT \tauid uses the high-level
variables summarised in~\Cref{tab:tauid_input_variables} as inputs and
serves as a baseline for comparison with the RNN-based algorithm.

Variables sensitive to the lifetime and mass of the \taulepton
($|S_{\text{T}}^{\text{flight}}|$, $|S_{\text{leadtrack}}|$,
$m^{\text{track}}$), the isolation of \tauhadvis in the tracking
system ($f_{\text{iso}}^{\text{track}}$) and the calorimeters
($f_{\text{cent}}$), and combinations of track- and calorimeter-based
isolation ($f_{\text{track}}^{\text{EM}}$,
$p_{\text{T}}^{\text{EM+track}} / \pT$) are among the most important
high-level variables included in the \tauid algorithms. Three
exemplary distributions are shown in~\Cref{fig:tauid_high_level_vars}.


\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_sumpttrkfrac_1P}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_ptratioeflowapprox_1P}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_masstrksys_3P}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{Distributions of exemplary high-level input variables used
    for \tauid. (a):~The ratio of the scalar sum of \pT of tracks
    classified as \emph{isolation} with respect to tracks classified
    as \emph{core} or \emph{isolation}. (b):~The ratio of \tauhadvis
    candidate \pT estimated using a simplified particle flow approach
    and the purely calorimeter-based measurement
    (cf.~\Cref{tab:tauid_input_variables}). (c):~The mass of the
    system of \emph{core} tracks for 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_high_level_vars}
\end{figure}


\subsubsection{Track Input Variables}

Reconstructed tracks within $\Delta R < 0.4$ of the \tauhadvis
candidate axis with $\pT > \SI{500}{\MeV}$ are considered as inputs to
the RNN \tauid. No selections are applied on the quality of
reconstructed tracks or track impact parameters, thus the input tracks
include fake tracks and tracks from pile-up. Instead, track quality
criteria ($N_{\text{IBL hits}}$, $N_{\text{Pixel hits}}$,
$N_{\text{SCT hits}}$) and track impact parameters
($|d_0^{\text{track}}|$, $|z_0^{\text{track}} \sin\theta|$) are
included as observables of tracks used in the RNN \tauid algorithm
directly.

The transverse momenta of tracks ($p_{\text{T}}^{\text{track}}$) and
their angular separation from the axis of the \tauhadvis candidate
($\Delta \eta^{\text{track}}$, $\Delta \phi^{\text{track}}$) are
included to probe the isolation properties of \tauhadvis. A special
case is represented by the $p_{\text{T}}^{\text{seed jet}}$ variable,
the \pT of the jet seeding the \tauhadvis candidate, which is included
as an observable with every track. This input variable provides an
approximate \pT-scale of the underlying jet (or \tauhadvis) already
when processing the input tracks. Exemplary distributions of the
transverse momenta of the three \pT-leading tracks for 1-prong
\tauhadvis candidates are shown
in~\Cref{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_track0,fig:tauid_low_level_variables_track1,fig:tauid_low_level_variables_track2}.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_trk0relpt_1P}
    \subcaption{}%
    \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_track0}
  \end{subfigure}%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_trk1relpt_1P}
    \subcaption{}%
    \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_track1}
  \end{subfigure}%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_trk2relpt_1P}
    \subcaption{}%
    \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_track2}
  \end{subfigure}

  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_cls0relet_3P}
    \subcaption{}%
    \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_cluster0}
  \end{subfigure}%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_cls1relet_3P}
    \subcaption{}%
    \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_cluster1}
  \end{subfigure}%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.33\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/invars/invars_cls2relet_3P}
    \subcaption{}%
    \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_cluster2}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{Transverse momentum of the three \pT-leading tracks
    associated to 1-prong \tauhadvis candidates (a-c). Transverse
    energy of the three \ET-leading clusters associated to 3-prong
    \tauhadvis candidates (d-f). For illustration purposes, the track
    \pT and cluster \ET are normalised to the \pT of the jet seeding
    the \tauhadvis reconstruction.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_low_level_variables}
\end{figure}

The discrimination power of the RNN \tauid saturates after including
the ten tracks leading in \pT. Therefore, the sequence of tracks is
truncated at this point due to practical considerations.


\subsubsection{Cluster Input Variables}

Topological clusters of energy in the calorimeters are considered as
inputs to the RNN \tauid if they are constitutents of the jet seeding
the \tauhadvis reconstruction. All clusters are calibrated using the
local hadronic calibration~\cite{PERF-2014-07}.

The inclusion of the $E_{\text{T}}^{\text{cluster}}$,
$\Delta \eta^{\text{cluster}}$, $\Delta \phi^{\text{cluster}}$, and
$p_{\text{T}}^{\text{jet seed}}$ observables
(cf.~\Cref{tab:tauid_input_variables}) follow from considerations
similar to those for charged-particle tracks. In addition, information
on the position and shape of showers in the calorimeters is included
in the form of cluster moments~\cite{PERF-2014-07}, targeting the
differences between electromagnetic and hadronic showers. These
cluster moments include the longitudinal location of the cluster
barycentre, $\lambda_{\text{cluster}}$, and the lateral and
longitudinal extension of the cluster,
$\langle r^2 \rangle_{\text{cluster}}$ and
$\langle \lambda^2 \rangle_{\text{cluster}}$, respectively. For
illustration, the \ET of the three \ET-leading clusters is shown
in~\Cref{fig:tauid_low_level_variables_cluster0,fig:tauid_low_level_variables_cluster1,fig:tauid_low_level_variables_cluster2}
for 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates.

The performance of the RNN \tauid saturates after the inclusion of the
six \ET-leading clusters, thus the sequence of input clusters is
truncated at this point.


\subsection{Network Architecture}

The network architecture adopted for the RNN \tauid is shown
schematically in~\Cref{fig:tauid_network_architecture}. The network
consists of three branches, each one dedicated to one type of
input. The high-level variables, track inputs, and cluster inputs are
first processed independently in their respective branches. These
branches are then merged and reduced to a single output node that is
used to define the \tauid working points. The network is implemented
using the \textsc{Keras} library~\cite{keras} with the
\textsc{TensorFlow}
backend~\cite{tensorflow2015-whitepaper}.\footnote{\textsc{Keras}
  v2.2.0 and \textsc{TensorFlow} v1.8.0 are used.} Layers use the
\textsc{Keras} default configurations unless stated otherwise. A
detailed description of the network architecture is given in the
following.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \includegraphics[width=0.95\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rnn_network_architecture}

  \caption{Schematic depiction of the architecture used for the RNN
    \tauid algorithm. Individual layers of the network are indicated
    as rectangles. The figure is taken from
    Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_network_architecture}
\end{figure}

The branch of the network operating on high-level input variables
consists of three fully-connected (\emph{dense}) layers with 128, 128,
and 16 units each. The \ReLU activation function~\cite{nair:relu} is
used in all layers.

The branches operating on track and cluster inputs are
identical. Tracks and clusters are passed to the network as sequences
of vectors from $\mathbb{R}^m$, each vector consisting of the values
of $m$ input variables (cf.~\Cref{tab:tauid_input_variables}). The
sequences of tracks and clusters are ordered by descending
$p_{\text{T}}^{\text{track}}$ and $E_{T}^{\text{cluster}}$,
respectively. First, the sequences are passed through two
fully-connected layers with shared weights (\emph{shared dense}).
These layers have 32 units each and use the \ReLU activation
function~\cite{nair:relu}. \emph{Shared dense} layers map input
sequences, $(\myvec{x}_i)_{i=1}^{n}$, to output sequences of the same
length, $(\myvec{y}_i)_{i=1}^{n}$, using transformations of the form
\begin{align*}
  \myvec{y}_i = \myvec{\phi}(\myvec{W} \myvec{x}_i + \myvec{b}) \,\text{,}
\end{align*}
where $\myvec{W}$ and $\myvec{b}$ are trainable weight matrices and
bias vectors, respectively, and $\myvec{\phi}$ is the activation
function.  Notably, the weights and biases do not depend on the
index~$i$, meaning the weights (and biases) are shared between
elements of the sequence. The \emph{shared dense} layers produce
intermediate representations of the track and cluster sequences for
further computation.

The transformed sequences of tracks and clusters pass through two
recurrent layers based on the \emph{long short-term memory} (LSTM)
architecture~\cite{lstm}. The first LSTM layer maps the input sequence
to an output sequence of the same length. In contrast to \emph{shared
  dense} layers, LSTM layers have an internal state that is updated as
elements of the sequence are processed. Therefore, information about
elements occuring in the sequence can be exploited when processing
subsequent elements. The second LSTM layer repeats the process,
however, all except the last element of the output sequence are
discarded, thereby encoding the input sequence into a single output of
fixed size. The size of the internal state and output space of the
LSTM layers are chosen to be the same and correspond to 32 units for
the first and 24 units for the second LSTM layer.

Finally, the outputs of the three branches are concatenated
(\emph{Merge}) and passed through three fully-connected layers with
sizes of 64, 32, and 1 units. The \ReLU (sigmoid) activation function
is used for the hidden layers (output layer). The entire model
consists of approximately \num{56000} trainable parameters.


\subsection{Network Training and Evaluation}

Two separate networks are trained for the classification of 1- and
3-prong \tauhadvis candidates. The samples of 1- and 3-prong
\tauhadvis candidates are partitioned into a training
(\SI{40}{\percent}), validation (\SI{10}{\percent}), and testing
datasets (\SI{50}{\percent}). The trainable parameters of the networks
are determined by minimising the binary cross-entropy loss on the
training dataset. The loss of the network is monitored on the
validation datasets and is used to steer the training procedure.

Stochastic gradient descent with momentum is used for loss
minimisation. Prior to the training, transformations are applied to
input variables for better conditioning of the minimisation
problem. The learning rate of the optimiser is reduced when the
validation loss did not improve for four successive training
epochs. Similarly, the training is stopped after ten epochs without
improvements of the validation loss in which case the model parameters
resulting in the best validation loss are restored.

The trained networks are implemented for evaluation during offline
event reconstruction in the \textsc{Athena} software
suite~\cite{ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-001} using the \textsc{lwtnn}
library~\cite{lwtnn}.

The classification score computed by the RNN \tauid is transformed to
be approximately uniformly distributed for \truetauhadvis
candidates. The transformed score, referred to as the RNN score and
shown in~\Cref{fig:flattened_rnnscore}, allows to define working
points for a given \truetauhadvis identification efficiency target by
applying a threshold on the score. Moreover, the transformation is
derived in bins of \tauhadvis \pT (calorimeter-based \pT estimate at
LC scale) and the average number of interactions per bunch crossing,
$\mu$, to ensure that the \truetauhadvis efficiencies of working
points remains approximately constant as \tauhadvis \pT or pile-up
conditions change. The same procedure is applied for the BDT-based
\tauid algorithm.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/rnnscore_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/rnnscore_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{The distribution of the RNN score for 1-prong (a) and
    3-prong \tauhadvis candidates (b). The RNN score is shown after a
    transformation in bins of \tauhadvis \pT and the average number of
    pile-up interactions ($\mu$).}%
  \label{fig:flattened_rnnscore}
\end{figure}


\section{Performance of the RNN Tau Identification}%
\label{sec:tauid_perf}

Thresholds on the RNN scores of 1- and 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates
define working points of varying \tauhadvis identification
efficiencies and \faketauhadvis rejection factors.\footnote{The
  \truetauhadvis (\faketauhadvis) identification efficiency is the
  fraction of \tauhadvis candidates from $\gammastar \to \tautau$
  (di-jet) events passing a given working point. The \faketauhadvis
  identification efficiency is typically given in terms of a rejection
  factor, the reciprocal of the identification efficiency.} Four named
working points are defined to cover the needs of most physics analyses
at the ATLAS experiment. These working points are, in order of
increasing \faketauhadvis rejection: \emph{very loose}, \emph{loose},
\emph{medium}, and \emph{tight}.

The targeted \truetauhadvis efficiencies of the working points are
summarised in \Cref{tab:rnn_wps}. The rejection of \faketauhadvis from
di-jet events is compared between the BDT- and RNN-based \tauid
algorithms for working points targeting the same \truetauhadvis
efficiencies. The RNN \tauid improves the \faketauhadvis rejection by
about \SI{80}{\percent} for 1-prong and between
\SIrange{40}{80}{\percent} for 3-prong \tauhadvis candidates over the
algorithm based on BDT. The receiver operating characteristic curves
of both algorithms are shown in
\Cref{fig:tauid_rnn_bdt_roc_comparison}.

\begin{table}[htbp]
  \centering

  \caption{Summary of working points defined for the BDT and RNN-based
    \tauid. Only the targeted \truetauhadvis efficiency (target
    \truetauhadvis eff.) of the working points is given which can
    deviate by ca.\ \SI{1}{\percent} from the actual efficiency
    observed in $\gammastar \to \tautau$ events. The \faketauhadvis
    rejection is evaluated using the \tauhadvis candidate sample from
    di-jet events. The table is adapted from
    Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}.}%
  \label{tab:rnn_wps}

  \input{tables/tauid_working_points}
\end{table}

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \includegraphics[width=0.55\textwidth]{tauid/roc_incl_witherrors}

  \caption{Receiver operating characteristic curve of the \tauid
    algorithms based on RNN (solid) and BDT (dashed) shown separately
    for 1- (red) and 3-prong candidates (blue). The true- and
    \faketauhadvis efficiencies are evaluated using samples of
    \tauhadvis candidates from $\gammastar \to \tautau$ and di-jet
    events, respectively.  The figure is adapted from
    Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_rnn_bdt_roc_comparison}
\end{figure}

The \truetauhadvis selection efficiencies estimated using \tauhadvis
from simulated $\gammastar \to \tautau$ events is shown in
\Cref{fig:tauid_truetau_eff} as a function of \tauhadvis \pT,
\tauhadvis $|\eta|$, and the average interactions per bunch crossing,
$\mu$. By construction of the working points, the efficiency remains
approximately constant in \tauhadvis \pT and $\mu$. An exception is
the first \tauhadvis \pT bin which does not meet the target
efficiency. This is an effect of different \tauhadvis momentum
calibrations being used for the transformation of the neural network
output and for the evaluation of the performance. The transformation
was derived using a purely calorimeter-based \tauhadvis \pT estimate
(at LC scale) which was superseded by a multivariate method combining
calorimeter and tracking information to determine \tauhadvis momenta.

\begin{figure}[htbp]

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/eff_vs_pt_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/eff_vs_pt_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/eff_vs_eta_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/eff_vs_eta_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/eff_vs_mu_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/eff_vs_mu_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{True-\tauhadvis efficiencies of the four working points of
    the RNN \tauid. The efficiencies are estimated using \tauhadvis
    candidates from simulated $\gammastar \to \tautau$ events
    separately for 1- (left) and 3-prong \tauhadvis
    (right). Efficiencies are shown in bins of \tauhadvis \pT (a,b),
    \tauhadvis $|\eta|$ (c,d), and the average interactions per bunch
    crossing (e,f). All figures are taken from
    Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_truetau_eff}
\end{figure}

Data-driven measurements of the \truetauhadvis efficiencies of the RNN
\tauid working points (\emph{loose}, \emph{medium}, and \emph{tight})
were performed by the ATLAS collaboration. These measurements have
provided calibrations of the \truetauhadvis efficiency in simulation
using the tag-and-probe method in $Z \to \tau_\mu \tauhad$ events. A
relative agreement within \SI{5}{\percent} between the efficiency
predicted by simulation and the data-driven measurement is observed.

The rejection of \faketauhadvis from simulated di-jet events by the
\tauid is compared in~\Cref{fig:tauid_faketau_rej} for the
\emph{medium} working points of the BDT and RNN-based algorithm. The
comparison is performed separately for 1- and 3-prong \tauhadvis
candidates and in bins of \tauhadvis \pT, \tauhadvis $|\eta|$, and
$\mu$. In general, the \faketauhadvis rejection of \tauid is analysis
dependent and thus the comparison mainly serves as a benchmark of the
identification algorithms.


- Increases quickly with \tauhadvis pT -> due to increasing boost /
collimation the isolation criteria can be tightened.

- Improvement in rejection about doubles for high-ish \tauhadvis \pT
at around \SI{100}{\GeV}

- Eta:

- Pile-up stability: 1-prong is pretty stable. 3-prong RNN is more
susceptible to pile-up, featuring decreasing rejection power with
increasing pile-up.


\begin{figure}[htbp]

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rej_vs_pt_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rej_vs_pt_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rej_vs_eta_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rej_vs_eta_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rej_vs_mu_1p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}{0.498\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{tauid/pubnote/rej_vs_mu_3p}
    \subcaption{}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{Rejection of \faketauhadvis. Figures are taken from
    Ref.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-033}.}%
  \label{fig:tauid_faketau_rej}
\end{figure}



\subsection{Use at the HLT?}

\cite{ATL-DAQ-PUB-2019-001}


\section{Conclusion and Outlook}
\label{sec:tauid_conclusion}


To be replaced by ``deep sets'' (permutation invariance). Based on the
same idea and same expected performance but significantly improved
training and prediction time.

Tau track classification.


%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../../phd_thesis"
%%% End:
