% Motivation paragraph
Theoretical motivation in~\Cref{sec:hh_motivation}.

\todo[inline]{New physics could alter the self-coupling constant.}

\todo[inline]{Should maybe be less specific concerning saying that we
  set constraints on \klambda since this is statistically not so well
  founded. Rather cross section limits.}

In the current experimental environment of HEP, direct searches for
non-resonant Higgs boson pair production are the most sensitive probes
of the Higgs boson self-coupling constant, \lambdahhh, due to the
large sensitivity of the total and differential non-resonant \HH
production cross section to anomalous values of \lambdahhh. Hereafter,
the self-coupling constant is given in terms of the modifier
$\klambda = \lambdahhh / \lambdahhh^{\text{SM}}$ relating an assumed
value of the self-coupling constant to the value predicted by the SM.

This chapter presents a reinterpretation of the search for SM \HH
production (i.e.\ $\klambda = 1$) presented in~\Cref{sec:dihiggs} in
terms of non-resonant \HH production with anomalous values of the
Higgs boson self-coupling constant. The reinterpretation allows to set
upper limits on the non-resonant production cross section of Higgs
boson pairs as a function of \klambda. These upper limits allow, by
comparison with the theoretical cross section predictions, to exclude
regions of \klambda that are incompatible with the observations made
in the SM \HH search.

Previous constraints on \klambda were set by the ATLAS collaboration
using up to \SI{36.1}{\per\femto\barn} of \pp-collision data taken
during Run~2 of the LHC. This combination yielded an allowed range of
$-5.0 < \klambda < 12.0$ at \SI{95}{\percent} CL by combining the
results of six searches for non-resonant \HH
production~\cite{HDBS-2018-58}. The methods used for the
reinterpretation performed in this chapter are largely adopted from
the earlier result published in Ref.~\cite{HDBS-2018-58}. The
following focuses on the reinterpretation of the search in the
$\bbbar\tautau$ channel with \SI{139}{\per\femto\barn} of
\pp-collision data. The results of this chapter were partially
published by the ATLAS collaboration in
Ref.~\cite{ATLAS-CONF-2021-052}.

This chapter is structured as follows. \Cref{sec:self_coupling_pheno}
describes the phenomenology of a non-resonantly produced \HH signal
with anomalous values of \klambda. The reinterpretation of the SM \HH
search including the statistical model, assumptions, and limitations
is discussed in \Cref{sec:reinterpretation}. The upper limits on the
cross section and the excluded intervals of \klambda are presented in
\Cref{sec:reinterpretation_results}. A conclusion and outlook is given
in \Cref{sec:reinterpretation_conclusion}.


\section{Phenomenology of Higgs Boson Pair Production with Anomalous
  Higgs Boson Self-Coupling Strength}%
\label{sec:self_coupling_pheno}

Before describing the reinterpretation of the SM \HH search, the
experimental signature of non-resonant \HH production with anomalous
values of \klambda is discussed. The aim is to understand the
sensitivity of direct searches for \HH production, and of the
individual search channels.

The non-resonant \HH production cross section via \ggF and VBF is
shown in \Cref{fig:hh_xsec_incl} as a function of \klambda. The \ggF
production mode is the dominant contribution to Higgs boson pair
production throughout the considered \klambda range. For this
production mode, the destructive interference between the box and
triangle diagram becomes maximal at about $\klambda = 2.3$ at which
point the cross section reaches a minimum of approximately
\SI{13}{\femto\barn}. Similar behaviour is shown for the VBF
production mode, although involving different diagrams (cf.\
\Cref{fig:hh_feynmans}).

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \includegraphics[width=0.55\textwidth]{self_coupling/hh_xsec}

  \caption{Higgs boson pair production cross section via the \ggF and
    VBF production modes as a function of \klambda. The production
    cross section for \ggF is given at $\text{NNLO}_{\text{NLO-i}}$
    rescaled to $\text{NNLO}_{\text{FTapprox}}$ in the $\klambda = 1$
    limit~\cite{Amoroso:2020lgh,Baglio:2020wgt,LHCHWGHH,Grazzini:2018bsd}. The
    production cross section for VBF is obtained from simulation with
    \MGNLO at LO after applying an $\text{N}^3\text{LO}$ $k$-factor
    derived for the SM case~\cite{Dreyer:2018qbw,LHCHWGHH}. The cross
    sections are parameterised as quadratic functions of
    \klambda. Theoretical uncertainties are shown as coloured bands.}%
  \label{fig:hh_xsec_incl}
\end{figure}

In addition to the change in total cross section, anomalous values of
\klambda alter the differential \HH production cross section in terms
of the invariant mass of the pair of Higgs bosons. This is shown in
\Cref{fig:hh_xsec_mhh} for the dominant \ggF production mode and for
five exemplary values of \klambda. The \mHH spectra for different
values of \klambda show large differences in their \emph{hardness} as
measured by the median of the \mHH distribution
in~\Cref{fig:hh_median_mhh}. For \klambda values just below or at the
point of maximum destructive interference between the box and triangle
diagram, the \mHH spectra are moderately hard and have a pronounced
double peak structure. For other values of \klambda, particularly for
$\klambda \approx 3$, the cross section at low \mHH is enhanced
resulting in softer \mHH spectra.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \begin{subfigure}[t]{0.485\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{self_coupling/hh_mhh_vs_klam}
    \subcaption{%Differential \HH production cross section with respect
      %to \mHH for the \ggF production mode and selected values of
      %\klambda.
      % Differential cross sections are normalised by dividing by the
      % total cross section. Only statistical uncertainties from the
      % finite number of generated events are shown.
    }%
    \label{fig:hh_xsec_mhh}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}[t]{0.485\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{self_coupling/hh_median_mhh_vs_klam}
    \subcaption{%Median value of \mHH for Higgs boson pairs produced
      % via \ggF as a function of \klambda
    }%
    \label{fig:hh_median_mhh}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{Differential cross section of Higgs boson pair production
    with respect to \mHH for the \ggF production mode and selected
    values of \klambda (a) and the median value of \mHH as a function
    of \klambda (b). Both are given for \pp-collisions at
    $\sqrt{s} = \SI{13}{\TeV}$ and assuming $\mH =
    \SI{125.0}{\GeV}$. The cross sections are obtained from simulation
    with \POWHEGBOX[v2] at NLO including the top-quark mass
    dependence~\cite{Heinrich:2019bkc,Heinrich:2020ckp} for
    $\klambda = 0, 1, 10$. Differential cross sections for other
    values of \klambda are estimated using morphing techniques that
    are discussed in \Cref{sec:self_coupling_signals}.}
\end{figure}

The \klambda-dependency of $\mathrm{d}\sigma / \mathrm{d}\mHH$ is an
important factor affecting the sensitivity of searches to signals with
anomalous \klambda. This is due to limitations in the signal
acceptance at low \mHH of most search channels due to \pT-thresholds
applied to objects at trigger-level. Particularly searches targeting
(visible) hadronic final states such as $\bbbar\hadhad$ and \bbbb are
affected. While these channels yield stringent cross section limits
for the SM case, scenarios where the cross section at low \mHH is
enhanced are less favourable due to the high thresholds of $b$-jet and
\tauhadvis triggers. In these cases, the \bbyy channel, due to its use
of di-photon triggers, yields larger signal acceptance and the most
stringent exclusion limits of a single channel.


\section{Reinterpretation of the Search for SM \HH Production}%
\label{sec:reinterpretation}

The SM \HH search from \Cref{sec:dihiggs} is reinterpreted to set
upper limits on the cross section of non-resonant \HH production as a
function of an assumed valued of \klambda. %These upper limits allow,
%by comparison with the theoretical cross section predictions
%(cf.~\Cref{fig:hh_xsec_incl}), to exclude regions of \klambda that are
%incompatible with the observations made in the SM \HH search.
The reinterpretation adopts the statistical framework presented in
\Cref{sec:statistical_analysis} with few modifications. These
modifications are restricted to the signal model used in the
statistical interpretation. The background model and final
discriminants, including their binning, remain identical to those in
the SM \HH search.

The signal model used for the statistical interpretation is obtained
by replacing the SM \HH signal with signals from non-resonant \HH
production with arbitrary but fixed \klambda. Similar to the SM \HH
search, the sum of the \ggF and VBF production mode is considered as
the signal. The signal is normalised using the cross section
$\sigma_{\text{ggF+VBF}}$ which is considered the parameter of
interest and is allowed to vary freely in the model.\footnote{The
  cross section $\sigma_{\text{ggF+VBF}}$ is inclusive in the decay
  modes of the Higgs bosons. It is extrapolated from the measurement
  in the \bbtautau channel assuming Higgs boson branching ratios as
  predicted by the SM.}  The methods for obtaining signal templates in
the signal regions will be described in
\Cref{sec:self_coupling_signals}.

The adopted method of reinterpretation makes assumptions that are
given in the following. First, except for \klambda, all coupling
strengths are assumed to adhere to the SM predictions. Second, the
single Higgs boson production cross sections and branching ratios are
fixed to their SM values and are thus assumed to be independent of
\klambda. This is generally not the case since variations of \klambda
affect both the production cross sections and branching ratios due to
higher-order electroweak corrections. These effects and their
sensitivity to \klambda are discussed in
Refs.~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-009,Degrassi:2016wml,Maltoni:2017ims}.
Since backgrounds from single Higgs boson production are
non-negligible in the SM \HH search, it is instructive to gauge the
crudeness of this approximation over the allowed interval of
$-5.0 < \klambda < 12.0$ from previous results of the ATLAS
collaboration~\cite{HDBS-2018-58}. In the considered \klambda
interval, the single Higgs boson production cross sections deviate
from the SM prediction by up to \SI{12}{\percent} (\SI{25}{\percent})
for the \ggF, VBF, and $VH$ production modes ($\ttbar H$ production
mode)~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-009}. The Higgs boson branching ratios
to fermions show small (relative) deviations of up to \SI{3}{\percent}
from the SM over the relevant \klambda
range~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2019-009}. For the purpose of this
reinterpretation, signal processes were generated assuming SM Higgs
boson branching ratios for consistency with the treatment of single
Higgs boson backgrounds. These assumptions were dropped in a follow-up
analysis performed as part of Ref.~\cite{ATL-HDBS-2022-03-002} by the
ATLAS collaboration, which is not discussed here, however.


\subsection{Signal Templates and Uncertainties for Non-Resonant \HH
  Production with Anomalous \klambda}%
\label{sec:self_coupling_signals}

Templates of the contribution of a signal with anomalous values of
\klambda in all three signal regions are required for the
reinterpretation. These are obtained using morphing and re-weighting
techniques developed by the ATLAS collaboration that will be explained
hereafter. An ingredient for both are simulated event samples for
different assumed values of \klambda. The event simulation proceeds
using the same generator setup described in
\Cref{sec:data_and_simulation}. Non-resonant \HH events are generated
for $\klambda = 1, 10$ for the \ggF production mode and
$\klambda = 0, 1, 10, 20$ for the VBF production mode. Additionally,
large samples of events from non-resonant \HH production via \ggF are
generated for $\klambda = 0, 1, 10, 20$ without simulation of the
ATLAS detector. These event samples are normalised using the cross
sections previously shown in \Cref{fig:hh_xsec_incl}.

Established morphing techniques~\cite{ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-047} are used
to obtain signal templates for arbitrary \klambda by linearly
combining a set of basis templates with fixed \klambda. This approach
is motivated by considering the squared matrix element of non-resonant
\HH production for either the \ggF or VBF production mode at leading
order in \klambda. The squared matrix element can be written as
\begin{align*}
  |\mathcal{M}|^2 = \klambda^2 |\mathcal{A}|^2 + 2 \klambda \operatorname{Re}(\mathcal{A} \mathcal{B}^*) + |\mathcal{B}|^2 \,\text{,}
\end{align*}
where $\mathcal{A}$ is the (complex) amplitude of diagrams involving
the Higgs boson-self coupling after factoring out the value of the
anomalous self-coupling constant, and $\mathcal{B}$ the amplitude of
diagrams not involving any Higgs boson self-interactions. Therefore,
knowing $|\mathcal{M}|^2$ at three suitably chosen values of \klambda
one can obtain the matrix element for any value of \klambda by solving
for the squared amplitudes of $\mathcal{A}$ and $\mathcal{B}$, and the
interference term. The same considerations apply to predictions of
differential cross sections such that the differential cross section
at any \klambda can be obtained by linearly combining the predictions
at $\klambda = a, b$ and $c$ according to
\begin{align*}
  \frac{\mathrm{d}\sigma}{\mathrm{d}\myvec{x}}(\klambda)
  = w_1(\klambda) \left. \frac{\mathrm{d}\sigma}{\mathrm{d}\myvec{x}} \right|_{\klambda = a}
  + w_2(\klambda) \left. \frac{\mathrm{d}\sigma}{\mathrm{d}\myvec{x}} \right|_{\klambda = b}
  + w_3(\klambda) \left. \frac{\mathrm{d}\sigma}{\mathrm{d}\myvec{x}} \right|_{\klambda = c} \,\text{,}
\end{align*}
where the coefficients $w_i(\klambda)$ are second degree polynomials
in \klambda.

For the \ggF production mode, this morphing technique is only used
indirectly. Differential cross section predictions at generator-level
are obtained by linearly combining the $\klambda = 0, 1, 20$ event
samples without detector simulation. These predictions are used to
derive a re-weighting in the generator-level \mHH for the
$\klambda = 1$ event sample to obtain any \klambda. This re-weighting
is then applied to the $\klambda = 1$ sample with full detector
simulation. For the VBF production mode, the morphing technique is
used directly by combining the $\klambda = 1, 2, 10$ samples. Event
samples not used for morphing or re-weighting are used for validation
purposes.

Uncertainties on the modelling of the signal processes with anomalous
\klambda are derived according to \Cref{sec:modelling_uncertainties}.
Variations of the $H \to \tautau$ and $H \to \bbbar$ branching ratios,
the parton shower program, the renormalisation and factorisation
scales, and the PDFs and $\alphas$ are considered. Additionally, the
statistical uncertainties of the \klambda re-weighting factors are
accounted for.


\subsection{Acceptance of Non-Resonant \HH Production with Anomalous
  \klambda in the \bbtautau Channel}%
\label{sec:self_coupling_bbtt_limitations}

The sensitivity of the $\bbbar\hadhad$ and $\bbbar\lephad$ SLT/LTT
channels to non-resonant \HH production can be qualitatively
understood by examining the acceptance times efficiency for signal
events, hereafter abbreviated as \emph{signal acceptance}, as a
function of \klambda. The signal acceptance is shown in
\Cref{fig:acceptance_vs_klambda} for the signal region selections in
all three channels and their combination. It reaches a maximum at
$\klambda \approx 2$ which corresponds to the value of the
self-coupling constant with the largest median \mHH for signal events
produced via \ggF. The limited signal acceptance at low \mHH due to
the trigger selection is illustrated in \Cref{fig:acceptance_vs_mhh}
for the dominant \ggF production mode. The \hadhad and \lephad SLT
channel show similar signal acceptance over a wide range of \mHH,
however, in the range of $\SI{250}{\GeV}< \mHH < \SI{320}{\GeV}$ the
\lephad SLT channel dominates the signal acceptance in this
search. The inclusion of the \lephad LTT channel, due to selecting
events with leptons below the lepton \pT-threshold of the \lephad~SLT
channel, is primarily intended to improve the signal acceptance at low
\mHH where its relative contribution to the total signal acceptance is
largest.

\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \begin{subfigure}[t]{0.485\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{self_coupling/acc_vs_klam}
    \subcaption{Signal (\ggF + VBF) acceptance as a function of
      \klambda. The combination of all channels is shown in black.}%
    \label{fig:acceptance_vs_klambda}
  \end{subfigure}\hfill%
  \begin{subfigure}[t]{0.485\textwidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{self_coupling/acc_vs_mhh}
    \subcaption{Signal (\ggF only) acceptance in bins of \mHH.}%
    \label{fig:acceptance_vs_mhh}
  \end{subfigure}

  \caption{Non-resonant \HH signal acceptance in the \hadhad,
    \lephad~SLT, and \lephad~LTT channel. The signal acceptance is
    calculated as the fraction of events with $\bbbar\tauhad\tauhad$
    or $\bbbar\taulep\tauhad$ final states passing the signal region
    selections of a given channel.}%
  \label{fig:acceptance_vs_klambda_vs_mhh}
\end{figure}

The signal acceptance is not the only factor determining the
sensitivity of the reinterpretation. Signals with enhanced cross
sections at low \mHH have larger overlap with background events. This
is a consequence of using multivariate discriminants trained to
distinguish SM \HH events from backgrounds and the naturally greater
abundance of background events with low \mHH.


\section{Results}%
\label{sec:reinterpretation_results}

\todo[inline]{Should note that the intersection approach is a bit
  sketchy from a statistical point of view.}

The results were obtained by the ATLAS collaboration...

Say that when going from the $\HH \to \bbbar\tautau$ measurement in
\lephad and \hadhad to $pp \to HH$ assumes SM branching ratios of $H$.

Upper limits are set on $\sigma_{HH}^{\klambda}$ as a function of
\klambda and compare to the theoretical cross section for a given
value of \klambda. Intervals of \klambda are excluded if the cross
section predicted by theory is larger than the experimentally
determined upper limit.

Comparing the observed upper limits with the theoretical cross section
prediction shows that \klambda outside of the interval
$-2.4 \leq \klambda \leq 9.2$ would be incompatible with the exclusion
limits.


\begin{figure}[htbp]
  \centering

  \includegraphics[width=0.6\textwidth]{self_coupling/klam_scan_result}

  \caption{Upper limits on the Higgs boson pair production cross
    section via \ggF and VBF, $\sigma_{\text{ggF+VBF}}$, at
    \SI{95}{\percent} \CLs as a function the Higgs boson self-coupling
    modifier, \klambda. The theory prediction previously described in
    \Cref{fig:hh_xsec_incl} is overlaid. The expected upper limits
    assume the absence of non-resonant \HH production. The figure is
    taken from Ref.~\cite{ATLAS-CONF-2021-052}.}%
  \label{fig:klambda_scan}
\end{figure}


\section{Conclusion and Outlook}%
\label{sec:reinterpretation_conclusion}


The total Higgs boson pair production cross section with anomalous
couplings. Following recommendations by the LHC Higgs Working
Group~\cite{LHCHWGHH}:
\begin{description}

\item[\ggF production mode] The cross sections of \HH production with
  anomalous self-couplings were calculated in
  Ref.~\cite{Amoroso:2020lgh} at $\text{NNLO}_{\text{NLO-i}}$
  (NLO-improved). This prediction is obtained from combining the
  result with the full top-quark mass dependence at
  NLO~\cite{Buchalla:2018yce}


  with NNLO corrections in the $m_{t} \to \infty$
  limit~\cite{deFlorian:2017qfk}.

  Additionally, the prediction is rescaled such that it coincides with
  the SM \HH cross section at $\text{NNLO}_{\text{FTapprox}}$ at
  $\klambda = 1$.

  The total \HH production cross section via \ggF was found to depend
  quadratically on \klambda and is thus parameterised
  accordingly~\cite{LHCHWGHH}.

\item[VBF production mode]

\end{description}


\todo[inline]{Read YR about Higgs cross section predictions:
  \url{https://cds.cern.ch/record/2227475/files/CERN-2017-002-M.pdf}}

\todo{Updated result from H+HH
  combination~\cite{ATLAS-CONF-2022-050}.}

These results were superseded by a combination of the most sensitive
search channels for non-resonant \HH and single Higgs boson production
by the ATLAS collaboration in Ref.~\cite{ATLAS-CONF-2022-050}, which
is not discussed in detail in this chapter.

\todo[inline]{Should mention H+HH combinations that help to improve
  self-coupling measurements.}

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../../phd_thesis"
%%% End:
