% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
\chapter*{Acknowledgements}
% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This thesis building on the work of many decades of scientists.

These acknowledgements are to the people that made this thesis possible.

Therefore, the following acknowledgements only a personal selection can be
given. Many people are required to make this thesis possible.




First of all, I want to thank Prof.\ Dr.\ Jochen Dingfelder for accepting me as
part of his research group and giving me the freedom to pursue interesting
topics during my PhD. I'm grateful for your support and guidance throughout my
MSc and PhD studies in your group.

I want to express my gratitude to my co-supervisor Tatjana Lenz. Thanks for all
the advice and support you gave me throughout my studies. Thank you also for
coordinating the \bbtautau effort, which, I'm sure, must have felt like herding
cats at times.


Prof.\ Dr.\ Ian Brock

I am also grateful to PD Dr.\ Bastian Kubis and Prof.\ Dr.\ Elena Demidova for
agreeing to be members of my doctoral committee.

I would also like to thank the members and alumni of the \textsc{HEP1} group in
Bonn: Shubham Bansal, Florian Beisiegel, Stephan Duell, Peter Falke, Stephan
Hageböck, Christian Nass, Oğul Öncel, Jonathan Pampel, Christos Vergis, and
Eckhard von Törne.

A special thanks goes to Benedict Winter, Will Davey, Michel Janus, and
Pier-Olivier Deviveiros for taking me under their wings during the early stages
of my career in physics. Without your advice and enthusiasm

(I hope that I could inspire the upcoming generations of Master's and PhD
students.)

I also want to thank my collaborators at the ATLAS experiment: Alessandra Betti,
Christian Grefe, Zhiyuan ``Jordan'' Li, Yanlin Liu, Max Märker, Bertrand Martin
Dit Latour, Tulin Mete, Giacinto Piacquadio, Elliot Reynolds, Soshi Tsuno,
Song-Ming Wang, Daniele Zanzi, and Bowen Zhang.

Petar Bokan, Christina Dimitriadi, Serhat Ördek


\begin{itemize}

\item Parents: Without your continuous support I would not have been able to
  pursue my interest in physics.

\item Hilda: For keeping me sane while writing this dissertation during a global
  pandemic.

\item Friends and family

\end{itemize}

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../phd_thesis"
%%% End: 
