This chapter presents a search for Higgs boson pair production in
\bbtautau final states using \SI{139}{\per\femto\barn} of
\pp-collision data recorded at the ATLAS experiment during Run~2 of
the LHC. Non-resonant production of Higgs boson pairs predicted by the
SM (SM \HH production) and resonant production via scalar resonances
of narrow width are considered in the search. The search is divided
according to the decay mode of the \tauleptons into a channel with two
hadronically decaying \tauleptons (\hadhad) and a channel with a one
hadronically and one leptonically decaying \taulepton (\lephad). These
channels target the majority of decays of the \tautau system with
fractions of $\mathcal{B}(\tautau \to \hadhad) = \SI{42.0}{\percent}$
and
$\mathcal{B}(\tautau \to \lephad) =
\SI{45.6}{\percent}$~\cite{Zyla:2020zbs}. The $\taulep\taulep$ final
state with
$\mathcal{B}(\tautau \to \taulep\taulep) =
\SI{12.4}{\percent}$~\cite{Zyla:2020zbs} is not considered in this
search. The primary focus of this chapter lies on the \hadhad channel.

The $\HH \to \bbtautau$ search channel is among the most promising
channels to probe the nature of SM \HH production due to the
substantial fraction of \SI{7.3}{\percent} of decays of Higgs boson
pairs to \bbtautau final states (cf.~\Cref{fig:hh_branching_ratios})
in conjunction with the distinct signature of \taulepton
decays. Previous searches in the \bbtautau channel have been performed
by the ATLAS and CMS collaborations using data recorded during
Run~1~\cite{HIGG-2013-33,CMS-HIG-15-013} and at the beginning of Run~2
of the LHC~\cite{HIGG-2016-16-witherratum,CMS-HIG-17-002}. The work
presented in this chapter was partially published in
Ref.~\cite{ATLAS-CONF-2021-052}. The context of the results presented
in this chapter is provided by other searches for Higgs boson pair
production by the ATLAS and CMS collaborations using the \pp-collision
dataset recorded during Run~2 of the LHC in the
\bbtautau~\cite{CMS-PAS-HIG-20-010},
\bbbb~\cite{ATLAS-CONF-2022-035,CMS-HIG-20-005} and
\bbyy~\cite{HDBS-2018-34,CMS-HIG-19-018} channels.

The aim of the search for SM \HH production, assuming no deviation
from the background-only hypothesis (i.e.\ no SM \HH production) is
observed, is to set upper limits on the strength and cross section of
a SM \HH signal produced either via the \ggF or VBF production
mode. Under the assumption of the SM, the size of the \pp-collision
dataset collected during Run~2 is not sufficient to obtain evidence
for SM \HH production. However, physics beyond the SM could enhance
the non-resonant production of Higgs boson pairs with kinematic
properties similar to those of SM \HH production which is being probed
in this search. Similarly, the search for resonant production of Higgs
boson pairs targets scalar resonances with masses ranging from
\SIrange{251}{1600}{\GeV} produced via \ggF and aims to, in the
absence of deviations from the SM expectation, to set upper limits on
the production cross section of the scalar resonance.

\begin{itemize}

\item Search for non-resonant SM \HH production via \ggF and VBF
  production modes (setting xsec limits) and search for resonant
  production of \HH via narrow width Spin-0 resonances in the \ggF
  production mode (setting xsec limits).
\end{itemize}

This chapter is structures as follows. \Cref{sec:data_and_simulation},
\Cref{sec:object_reconstruction}, \Cref{sec:event_selection},
\Cref{sec:background_estimation}, \Cref{sec:multivariate_analysis},
\Cref{sec:uncertainties}, \Cref{sec:statistical_analysis},
\Cref{sec:result_discussion}.

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../../phd_thesis"
%%% End:
